README.md, before:

# Cat+ Manifests

> [!WARNING]
> This is a WIP repository, it is not yet stable.

## Summary

This repository contains all the manifests for Cat+ to deploy on Kubernetes.

Cat+ is composed of automated pipelines, a front-end and a databases. All of these need to be deployed on Kubernetes. This repository allows for maintenance and easy deployment.

## Installation guidelines

> [!NOTE] We assume that you already have access to a kubernetes cluster and that nix is installed ([install here](https://github.com/DeterminateSystems/nix-installer?tab=readme-ov-file#determinate-nix-installer)).

We provide a nix-based development shell which includes all dependencies required to manage and deploy manifests.
To build and enter the development shell, use `just nix-develop`.

## How to Use

### Deploying resources

We use kustomize to configure and deploy resources. To deploy all resources, use `just deploy`.

### Secret management

Secrets are encrypted using sops and age. A just module is provided to simplify operations.
Type `just secrets` to see the list of operations available.

#### Adding a recipient

To add a new recipient (i.e. someone whose key can be used to decrypt secrets), take the following steps.

1. New recipient runs `just secrets generate-key` and sends the public key (only!) to an existing recipient (see `.sops.agekey``).
2. Existing recipient adds the public key to `.sops.yaml` (keys are comma-separated)
3. Existing recipient runs `just update-keys` to re-encrypt secrets with the new key.
4. Existing recipient commits changes.

#### Deploying secrets

Running `just secrets deploy` will decrypt the secrets into a temporary file, deploy them with kubectl and delete the temporary file.

#### Editing secrets

To edit secrets:

1. Run `just secrets decrypt` and open the newly created `secrets/secrets.dec.yaml` in your editor.
2. Once the changes are made, re-encrypt them using `just secrets encrypt`.
3. Commit changes.

## Contribute

To be defined.

Commit message:

docs(readme): update usage, describe structure

README.md, after:

# Cat+ Manifests

## Summary

This repository contains all the manifests for Cat+ to deploy on Kubernetes.

Cat+ is composed of automated pipelines, a front-end and a databases. All of these need to be deployed on Kubernetes. This repository allows for maintenance and easy deployment.

## Installation guidelines

> [!NOTE] We assume that you already have access to a kubernetes cluster and that nix is installed ([install here](https://github.com/DeterminateSystems/nix-installer?tab=readme-ov-file#determinate-nix-installer)).

We provide a nix-based development shell which includes all dependencies required to manage and deploy manifests.
To build and enter the development shell, use `just develop`.

## Structure

* `external/`: third party resources
* `src/`: deployable manifests
* secrets are encrypted with sops+age and persisted in `src/secrets/`

Each service is structured as follows (supported tools are `ytt` and `helm`):

```
├── external
│  └── <tool>
│     └── <service>/... # <- third party templates
└── src
   └── <service>
      ├── additional-manifest.yaml # <- custom manifests for this deployment
      ├── kustomization.yaml # <- kustomization file to select resources
      └── <tool>
         ├── out/... # <- rendered manifests
         └── values.yaml # <- values used for templating
```

## How to Use

### Deploying resources

We use kustomize to configure and deploy resources. To deploy all resources, use `just deploy`.

### Secret management

Secrets are encrypted using sops and age. A just module is provided to simplify operations.
Type `just secrets` to see the list of operations available.

#### Adding a recipient

To add a new recipient (i.e. someone whose key can be used to decrypt secrets), take the following steps.

1. New recipient runs `just secrets generate-key` and sends the public key (only!) to an existing recipient (see `.sops.agekey``).
2. Existing recipient adds the public key to `.sops.yaml` (keys are comma-separated)
3. Existing recipient runs `just update-keys` to re-encrypt secrets with the new key.
4. Existing recipient commits changes.

#### Deploying secrets

Running `just secrets deploy` will decrypt the secrets into a temporary file, deploy them with kubectl and delete the temporary file.

#### Editing secrets

To edit secrets:
Either: run `just secrets edit <secret-file>` to decrypt/edit/encrypt secrets on the fly, or:

1. Run `just secrets decrypt` and open the newly created `secrets/secrets.dec.yaml` in your editor.
2. Once the changes are made, re-encrypt them using `just secrets encrypt`.
3. Commit changes.
